Add how to review pymc-examples PRs page (#5569)
pymc-devs/pymc: docs/source/contributing/review_pr_pymc_examples.md

> (reveiw_pr_pymc_examples)=

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(review_pr_pymc_examples)=
```

# Review a PR on pymc-examples

The target audience for this page are reviewers of PRs in pymc-examples
repo. It mostly gathers resources from its
[contributing guide](https://github.com/pymc-devs/pymc-examples/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md),
[PR template](https://github.com/pymc-devs/pymc-examples/blob/main/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md)
and the {ref}`jupyter_style` page to
centralize all resources for reviewers and put special emphasis on
reviewer tasks and responsibilities.

:::{important}
The most important guideline is the following: **When you aren't _completely_

> sure about something say so, ask around and (re)read the documentation**.

Reviewer 2: Delete "say so"

Author: doesn't that imply that "leave a comment saying I don't know this and therefore won't review it" is not an option? I would like to keep something with that message, not necessarly "say so" though, there are probably more clear and formal options I didn't think about.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sure about something communicate it, ask around and (re)read the documentation**.
```

:::

pymc-examples is a huge collection of notebooks, covering many fields
and applications of PyMC and Bayesian statistics. In addition,
its HTML generation infrastructure has been improved by specialized
people who were also paid so they could dedicate themselves to this task.
It is perfectly fine to not know about the topic, not know about
the tech stack being used or to not be sure about either.
You can still review, either focus on your expertise or take some
time going through all the available resources to learn about the parts

> you are not sure about.

Reviewer 2: Can also just check formatting and best practices

Author: I consider knowing about the formatting, how to add alt text to image in sphinx... to be one type of expertise

> (reveiw_pr/scope)=

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(review_pr/scope)=
```

## 1. Define the scope

> Before starting you need to make sure you understand the scope of the PR and
> to set the scope of your own review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before starting you need to make sure you understand the scope of the PR and
to set the scope of your own review.
If the scope isn't clear from the PR description, ask the author to update it!
```

There are many valid contributions that can be done to the notebooks in pymc-examples.
They can be focused on code, styling, wording...
pymc-examples needs to have regular updates and in many cases it doesn't matter if
these are partial and don't update everything that can be updated in the notebook.

Not all partial updates are valid nor helpful though. If doing updates
to the code for example, most of the wording will probably need no changes,
but there may be some sections where the explanation is specifically about the code
used. We don't know when the next partial update will come, so PRs should merge
working and coherent notebooks. If the code is updated to use `Potential` instead
of `DensityDist` and the explanation mentions `DensityDist`, that specific sentence
needs to be updated too.

> If you are not sure about the scope of the PR or think that what the PR is aiming for
> won't leave a coherent notebook, ask the PR author to make sure you are on the same
> page before reviewing.
> 
> Once you are clear on the scope of the PR, define which subset of that (if any)
> will your review cover. A PR that aims to update everything about a notebook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A PR that aims to update everything about a notebook
```
already covered two paragraphs above

could easily have 3 or more reviewers, each covering different aspects of the
example like Aesara usage, writing and explanation of the concepts used,
ArviZ usage, styling with MyST+Sphinx, or structuring and scope of the notebook.

Unless you plan to review everything, start your review mentioning what your
review covers (or skips).

Part of that is also making sure that the PR description links to the relevant issue(s).

(review_pr/initial_pass)=
## 2. Try to be concise and clear

> Try to be concise and to the point with your reviews.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Try to be concise and to the point with your reviews.
**Make sure to leave actionable responses.**
```

You'll need less time to review and the PR author will need less time to go over the review.
Here are some examples about what this does:

* Skim the notebook from top to bottom before starting your review.
  This will prevent you from spending some time writing about missing content
  and suggesting how to add it only to find out it is not missing but badly structured.
* Do not proofread the text until you are sure no large rewritings will be needed.
  What is the point of reviewing/fixing a typo when the whole paragraph is to be rewritten?
* Include some rationale about your comments. Contributors come from a wide range
  of places, fields and personal contexts and English might not be their (nor your) first language.
  Adding the reasons behind a suggestion goes a long way in making sure the suggestion
  is clear and makes it more probable that the author doesn't repeat this pattern again.

and doesn't mean:

* Avoiding mentioning good things from the PR or not thanking the PR author.
* Being cryptic or writing badly

> ## 3. Review the content and code

Reviewer 2: By "content" do you mean supporting text? Might mention something about ensuring relevance and clarity of text, as well as filling in missing text where code requires some explanation.

  There is little to gain from obscure one-liners and much to lose, even in
  intermediate or advanced notebooks. If some code is necessary but not
  very relevant and you think takes up too much space, hide that cell/input/output
  under a toggle button.
* Make sure that the text is relevant, it explains the code blocks when needed and
  is up to date with the code.
* Check diffs and output on ReviewNB

## 4. Review the styling and formatting
* Ignore ReviewNB. ReviewNB renders notebooks incorrectly when there are diffs involving formatting,
  it can add non-existent HTML tags to the rendered view, mess up links... Moreover, we don't
  want to render the notebook by itself but as a page on the example gallery.
* Check the readthedocs preview and use the MyST notebook format to see the raw text diff
  and comment on it when it comes to formatting.

For the time being (while we rerun and update the docs to new formatting) you should
not accept any of the following without a very good reason.
They are very specific and should be part of the PR scope even if the PR author
didn't intend to originally. Think of this as CI breaking.

* URLs pointing to PyMC/ArviZ/Aesara docs

> * No post directive or no MyST target at the top of the notebook.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps re-word this section to avoid double negatives: "you should not accept any of the following" ... "no post directive".  

Something more along the lines of: "please ensure each of the following" ... "post directive and MyST target" ... would be clearer.
